Filled the missing import and export section of a tutorial called "Rstudio in Galaxy" (#5698)
galaxyproject/training-material: topics/galaxy-interface/tutorials/rstudio/tutorial.md

Getting data in and out from Galaxy

## Import Data from the Galaxy History to RStudio

To import a dataset from the history into RStudio user needs to get the path to that file. To do so, the user can use `gx_get()` function with the dataset `id`. For example, if a user wants to import a dataset with ID 7 to their RStudio, they can get the path to the file by:

```
gx_get(7)
```

> It is important to know that this is just a print path function and do not import anything. Users should use a proper R function to read the file. For example, they can pass the path to a function that reads tables such as `read_table` or `read_tsv`. Let's assume that dataset 7 in the history is a tab-separated table (TSV) and we want to read it into our RStudio. Users can do it as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to know that the `gx_get()` function copies the data from the Galaxy history to the RStudio session and returns the path to the copied file. Users are supposed to use a proper R function to read the file. For example, they can pass the path to a function that reads tables such as `read_table` or `read_tsv`. Let's assume that dataset 7 in the history is a tab-separated table (TSV) and we want to read it into our RStudio. Users can do it as follows:
```

Getting data in and out from Galaxy

## Import Data from the Galaxy History to RStudio

> To import a dataset from the history into RStudio user needs to get the path to that file. To do so, the user can use `gx_get()` function with the dataset `id`. For example, if a user wants to import a dataset with ID 7 to their RStudio, they can get the path to the file by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To import a dataset from the history into RStudio a user needs to get the path to that file. To do so, the user can use `gx_get()` function with the dataset `id`. For example, if a user wants to import a dataset with ID 7 to their RStudio, they can get the path to the file by:
```

> To import a dataset from the history into RStudio a user needs to get the path to that file. To do so, the user can use `gx_get()` function with the dataset `id`. For example, if a user wants to import a dataset with ID 7 to their RStudio, they can get the path to the file by:

Reviewer 2: Just for clarity, perhaps:

```suggestion
To import a dataset from the history into RStudio a user needs to get the path to that file. To do so, the user can use `gx_get()` function with the dataset `id` (number in their Galaxy history) . For example, if a user wants to import a dataset with history ID 7 to their RStudio, they can get the path to the file by:
```

```
gx_get(7)
```

It is important to know that the `gx_get()` function copies the data from the Galaxy history to the RStudio session and returns the path to the copied file. Users are supposed to use a proper R function to read the file. For example, they can pass the path to a function that reads tables such as `read_table` or `read_tsv`. Let's assume that dataset 7 in the history is a tab-separated table (TSV) and we want to read it into our RStudio. Users can do it as follows:
```
table_name <- read.table(gx_get(7))
```

## Export Data from the RStudio

Users can export the RHistory and all objects from RStudio to Galaxy as follows (`analysis_17.01.2025` is an arbitrary name):
```
gx_save(session_name = "analysis_17.01.2025")
```
This data object can be loaded to R.

> If users want to export just one file from their R environment to their Galaxy history, they should first write the object from the memory to a file and then use the path to that file to export it. For example, if we want to export a table called `results` from RStudio to galaxy we can do as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If users want to export just one file from their R environment to their Galaxy history, they should first write the object from the memory to a file and then use the path to that file to export it. For example, if we want to export a table called `results` from RStudio to Galaxy we can do as follows:
```

> If users want to export just one file from their R environment to their Galaxy history, they should first write the object from the memory to a file and then use the path to that file to export it. For example, if we want to export a table called `results` from RStudio to Galaxy we can do as follows:

Reviewer 2: minor detail: in most GTN tutorials, we address the user directly, e.g. saying "you" instead of "the user", so perhaps nice to rephrase to fit with this (also in some of the sentences above)

```suggestion
If you want to export just one file from your R environment to your Galaxy history, you should first write the object from the memory to a file and then use the path to that file to export it. For example, if we want to export a table called `results` from RStudio to Galaxy we can do as follows:
```

Author: I updated it. Thanks for mentioning. I had doubt about it.
